README.md, before:

# E-COMMERCE SALES INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM..

>**This is a end to end data analytics pipeline demonstrating SQL,Python and Excel Automation For Business Intelligence**

Images from the project are:
- StreamLit Dashboard
![Dashboard](images/Dashboard.png)
- Query Analysis
![Query Analysis](images/Query%20Descriptive%20analysis.png)
- Queries in Descriptive Data

![Queries in Descriptive Data](images/Types%20of%20analysis%20in%20descriptive%20data.png)
- Queries in Predictive Data

![Queries in Predictive Data](images/Types%20of%20analysis%20in%20Predictive%20data.png)
- Queries in Prescriptive Data

![Queries in Prescriptive Data](images/Types%20of%20analysis%20in%20Prescriptive%20data.png)
- Jupyter Notebooks
![Queries in Prescriptive Data notebook](images/prescriptive%20analysis%20notebook.png)
![Queries in Predictive Data notebook](images/predictive%20analysis%20notebook.png)
![Queries in Descriptive Data notebook](images/descriptive%20analysis%20notebook.png)
- SQL Queries
![Queries in Prescriptive Data SQL](images/sql%20queries%20prescriptive.png)
![Queries in Predictive Data SQL](images/sql%20queries%20predictive.png)
![Queries in Descriptive Data SQL](images/sql%20queries%20descriptive.png)
- Data File used
![Data File](images/Data%20File.png)
Report Generator Code
![Report Generator code](images/report%20generator%20code.png)
![Excel Report Image](images/excel%20report.png)
- Analytics code
![Analytics code](images/analytics%20code.png)
- File Convertion to database
![CSV to Database](images/Csv%20to%20database%20code.png)


## Project Overview
A comprehensive sales analytics system that simulates real word business data workflow.
This Project demonstrates Proficiency in **data collection**,**data visualization**,**SQL analytics**,**Python automation**,**Business Reporting**,**database management**- which are the key skills required by a data analyst.

### Business Problem
E-Commerce Businesses need automated analytics to:
- Track their sales ,performace, trends, management.
- Identify their Best Products , Worst Products, Best Customers, etc.
- Optimize Product Inventory.
- Make data-driven decisions.

**Challenges:** Manual reporting and data analysis takes many hours and is error prone.

**Solution:** An Automated pipeline which processes data, Perform analysis, and generate reports in a very short time.

## Key Features

### **Descriptive Analysis**
The Descriptive Analysis used on the data is used to analyze the current position of the business:

Shows Analysis Like:

- Total Orders 
- Total Profit Generated
- Monthly Sales
- Yearly Sales
- Categorical Sales
- Regional Sales

### **Predictive Analysis**
The Predictive Analysis used on the data for forecasting the future of the business:

Shows Analysis Like:

- RFM (Recency,Frequency,Monetary) Signals
- Seasonal Demands
- Product Performance Trends
- High Risk Orders

### **Prescriptive Analysis**
The Prescriptive Analysis used on the data to analyze the current moves to be made for the future of the business:

Shows Analysis Like:

- Products To Discount (Which Products Needs Discounts for generated more sales)
- Seasonal Demands 
- Product Performance Trends
- High Risk Orders
- Products To Promote (Which Products Needs to be promoted more in the markets for increasing sales) 

### **Automation**

- Automated Excel report generation
- Interactive Streamlit Dashboard For Visualization 
- Reproducible analysis pipeline

## Tech Stack
Category             :      Technologies 

**Database**         :       SQLite, SQl

**Language**         :       Python 3.13

**Data Analysis**    :       Pandas

**Visualization**    :       Plotly, Plotly.express

**Dashboard**        :       Streamlit

**Reporting**        :       Openpyxl, Xlsxwriter

**Development**      :       Jupyter Notebooks, VS Code

**Version Control**  :       GitHub, Git

## Project Structure

Folder Structure 

![Folder Structure](images/Folder%20Structure.png)

## Skills Demonstrated

### Technical Skills

**SQL Proficiency**
- Learned SQL queries
- Made Functions for analysis
- Designed Database

**Python Development**
- Object Oriented Programming
- Pandas for data manipulation
- Automated report generation
- Error Handling

**Data Analysis**
- Descriptive Analysis
- Predictive Analysis
- Prescriptive Analysis

**Business Intelligence**
- DashBoard Designing
- Automated reporting
- Data-driven recommendations

### Soft Skills
- Problem-Solving and analytical thinking
- Communication through documentation
- Project organisation and structure
- Self-Directed Learning
- Project-Based Learning

## Project Metrices
- **Lines Of Code:** 700+
- **SQL Queries:** 25+ Analytical queries
- **Data Points:** 50,000+ rows of data
- **Analysis Notebooks:** 3 comprehensive notebooks
- **Automated Reports:** 3 generated excel files with multiple sheets showcasing each type of analysis
- **Development Time:** 3 days (<72 hours)

## Contact
**Vishank Tyagi**
- Email: tyagivishank1234@gmail.com
- LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/vishank-t/
- GitHub: https://github.com/VishankTyagi07

## Star This Repository
If you found this project helpful or interesting,please consider giving it a star! It helps others to discover the project.

**Built with :heart: by Vishank Tyagi | December 2025**



*This Project demonstrates end-to-end data analytics capabilities suitable for Data Analyst,Business Intelligence Analyst, and Analytics Engineer Roles*

Commit message:

Update README with application link and description
Added a link to the application and clarified the project description.

README.md, after:

# E-COMMERCE SALES INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM..

>**This is a end to end data analytics pipeline demonstrating SQL,Python and Excel Automation For Business Intelligence**
>**This Application can be Acceessed by using this link https://ecommerce-sales-intelligence-dashboard.streamlit.app/**

Images from the project are:
- StreamLit Dashboard
![Dashboard](images/Dashboard.png)
- Query Analysis
![Query Analysis](images/Query%20Descriptive%20analysis.png)
- Queries in Descriptive Data

![Queries in Descriptive Data](images/Types%20of%20analysis%20in%20descriptive%20data.png)
- Queries in Predictive Data

![Queries in Predictive Data](images/Types%20of%20analysis%20in%20Predictive%20data.png)
- Queries in Prescriptive Data

![Queries in Prescriptive Data](images/Types%20of%20analysis%20in%20Prescriptive%20data.png)
- Jupyter Notebooks
![Queries in Prescriptive Data notebook](images/prescriptive%20analysis%20notebook.png)
![Queries in Predictive Data notebook](images/predictive%20analysis%20notebook.png)
![Queries in Descriptive Data notebook](images/descriptive%20analysis%20notebook.png)
- SQL Queries
![Queries in Prescriptive Data SQL](images/sql%20queries%20prescriptive.png)
![Queries in Predictive Data SQL](images/sql%20queries%20predictive.png)
![Queries in Descriptive Data SQL](images/sql%20queries%20descriptive.png)
- Data File used
![Data File](images/Data%20File.png)
Report Generator Code
![Report Generator code](images/report%20generator%20code.png)
![Excel Report Image](images/excel%20report.png)
- Analytics code
![Analytics code](images/analytics%20code.png)
- File Convertion to database
![CSV to Database](images/Csv%20to%20database%20code.png)


## Project Overview
A comprehensive sales analytics system that simulates real word business data workflow.
This Project demonstrates Proficiency in **data collection**,**data visualization**,**SQL analytics**,**Python automation**,**Business Reporting**,**database management**- which are the key skills required by a data analyst.

### Business Problem
E-Commerce Businesses need automated analytics to:
- Track their sales ,performace, trends, management.
- Identify their Best Products , Worst Products, Best Customers, etc.
- Optimize Product Inventory.
- Make data-driven decisions.

**Challenges:** Manual reporting and data analysis takes many hours and is error prone.

**Solution:** An Automated pipeline which processes data, Perform analysis, and generate reports in a very short time.

## Key Features

### **Descriptive Analysis**
The Descriptive Analysis used on the data is used to analyze the current position of the business:

Shows Analysis Like:

- Total Orders 
- Total Profit Generated
- Monthly Sales
- Yearly Sales
- Categorical Sales
- Regional Sales

### **Predictive Analysis**
The Predictive Analysis used on the data for forecasting the future of the business:

Shows Analysis Like:

- RFM (Recency,Frequency,Monetary) Signals
- Seasonal Demands
- Product Performance Trends
- High Risk Orders

### **Prescriptive Analysis**
The Prescriptive Analysis used on the data to analyze the current moves to be made for the future of the business:

Shows Analysis Like:

- Products To Discount (Which Products Needs Discounts for generated more sales)
- Seasonal Demands 
- Product Performance Trends
- High Risk Orders
- Products To Promote (Which Products Needs to be promoted more in the markets for increasing sales) 

### **Automation**

- Automated Excel report generation
- Interactive Streamlit Dashboard For Visualization 
- Reproducible analysis pipeline

## Tech Stack
Category             :      Technologies 

**Database**         :       SQLite, SQl

**Language**         :       Python 3.13

**Data Analysis**    :       Pandas

**Visualization**    :       Plotly, Plotly.express

**Dashboard**        :       Streamlit

**Reporting**        :       Openpyxl, Xlsxwriter

**Development**      :       Jupyter Notebooks, VS Code

**Version Control**  :       GitHub, Git

## Project Structure

Folder Structure 

![Folder Structure](images/Folder%20Structure.png)

## Skills Demonstrated

### Technical Skills

**SQL Proficiency**
- Learned SQL queries
- Made Functions for analysis
- Designed Database

**Python Development**
- Object Oriented Programming
- Pandas for data manipulation
- Automated report generation
- Error Handling

**Data Analysis**
- Descriptive Analysis
- Predictive Analysis
- Prescriptive Analysis

**Business Intelligence**
- DashBoard Designing
- Automated reporting
- Data-driven recommendations

### Soft Skills
- Problem-Solving and analytical thinking
- Communication through documentation
- Project organisation and structure
- Self-Directed Learning
- Project-Based Learning

## Project Metrices
- **Lines Of Code:** 700+
- **SQL Queries:** 25+ Analytical queries
- **Data Points:** 50,000+ rows of data
- **Analysis Notebooks:** 3 comprehensive notebooks
- **Automated Reports:** 3 generated excel files with multiple sheets showcasing each type of analysis
- **Development Time:** 3 days (<72 hours)

## Contact
**Vishank Tyagi**
- Email: tyagivishank1234@gmail.com
- LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/vishank-t/
- GitHub: https://github.com/VishankTyagi07

## Star This Repository
If you found this project helpful or interesting,please consider giving it a star! It helps others to discover the project.

**Built with :heart: by Vishank Tyagi | December 2025**



*This Project demonstrates end-to-end data analytics capabilities suitable for Data Analyst,Business Intelligence Analyst, and Analytics Engineer Roles*
